Globomantics' HR has a new initiative that is aimed at saving on the healthcare expenses
it offers it's employees. The Healthcare system at Globomantics works in such a way that
Globomantics HR is responsible for meeting all the health care expenses of it's employees.
Even though Globomantics HR is responsible for meeting all the health care expenses of all
it's employees, each employee contributes a certain percentange to the general pool that 
Globomantics HR uses to meet the health care needs of all it's employees. Globomantics HR's
initiative is aimed at encouraging most of it's employees to get healthier by exercising
and visiting the gym regularly. This will save it from spending alot of money in healthcare
seeing that most of it's employees will be healthy and have no need for healthcare expenses.
To encourage it's employees to visit the gym, Globomantics HR offers credits and discounts
to it's employees that visit the gym regularly. The more an employee visits the gym, the
less amount of money they have to contribute towards Globomantics HR overall healthcare 
pool. So Globomantics HR has decided to partner with a fitness company and gym known as 
Carved Rock Fitness. This company shares information with Globomantics HR of how the 
Globomantics employees are  utilizing it's services. The Globomantics employees have 
authorized their HR department to pull out different datapoints of their activities at the 
Carved Rock Fitness Gym so that Globomantics HR can give them credits and discounts on their
healthcare contributions. This initiative will benefit both the Globomantics HR and 
Globomantics employees.
-> Globomantics HR saves on the overall amount of money it has to spend in healthcare seeing
   that most of it's employees are health as a result of visiting the gym and exercising more.
-> Globomantics employees will also save on their own money since Globomantics HR will 
   give them a discount on the amount of money they need to contribute towards the overall
   Globomantics HR healthcare pool

For the initiative to work, the following conditions have to exist
-> Globomantics HR should be able to share information with Carved Rock Fitness
-> Because information needs to be shared, Globomantics systems should be able to communicate 
   with Carved Rock Fitness systems
-> And because these two systems need to communicate with each other, there is need for:
   1. finding a good protocol that will allow easy communication between the two different
      systems.
   2. securing the data that will be shared by the two different systems to protect it from
      unauthenticated personel
   3. a way that enables the users of these two systems to provide permission for the systems
      to be able to communicate with each other.

SOLUTION
-> As the developer charged with bringing Globomantics' initiative into life, I will use the
   OAuth (open-standard authorization protocol or framework) to ensure that the conditions
   needed for Globomantics HR systems to communicate with Carved Rock Fitness Systems are met.
   
   WHY OAuth?
   -> OAuth works well with the HTTP and HTTPS communication protocols so our two systems will
      be able to communicate (share data) with each other
   -> OAuth also utilizes HTTPs (which is a secure protocol for transmitting data) and also
      supports authentication. It also uses solid security practices in order to keep data 
      secure
   -> OAuth as an authorization protocol also provides a way for users to grant permission for
      one application to access another application. It allows users to control what type of
      data they can share with whichever application they choose to share it with.
   
   HOW DOES OAuth WORK?
   Step 1 – The User Shows Intent
   -> Globomantics Employee (User): “Hey, Globomantics HR System, I would like you to get my
      work out data directly from Carved Rock Fitness System"
   -> Globomantics HR System (Consumer): “Great! Let me go ask for permission.”

   Step 2 – The Consumer Gets Permission
   -> Globomantics HR System: “I have a user that would like me to get their work out data.
      Can I have a request token?”
   -> Carved Rock Fitness System (Service Provider): “Sure. Here’s a token and a secret.”
      - the secret is used to prevent request forgery. The consumer uses the secret to 
        sign each request so that the service provider can verify it is actually coming 
        from the consumer application.
    
    Step 3 – The User Is Redirected to the Service Provider
    -> Globomantics HR System: “OK, Globomantics Employee (User).  I’m sending you over 
       to Carved Rock Fitness System so you can approve. Take this token with you.”
    -> Globomantics Employee (User): “OK!”

    Note:
    -> At this point, Globomantics HR System directs Globomantics Employee (user) to Carved 
       Rock Fitness System for authorization
    -> This is the scary part. If Globomantics HR System were a super-shady Evil Co, it could 
       pop up a window that looked like Carved Rock Fitness System but was really phishing 
       for your username and password. Always be sure to verify that the URL you’re directed 
       to is actually the service provider (Carved Rock Fitness System, in this case)

    Step 4 – The User Gives Permission
    -> Globomantics Employee (User): “Carved Rock Fitness System, I’d like to authorize this 
       request token that Globomantics HR System gave me.”
    -> Carved Rock Fitness System: “OK, just to be sure, you want to authorize Globomantics HR
       System to do X, Y, and Z with your Carved Rock Fitness account?”
    -> Globomantics Employee (User): “Yes!”
    -> Carved Rock Fitness System: “OK, you can go back to Globomantics HR System and tell them 
       they have permission to use their request token.”

    Step 5 – The Consumer Obtains an Access Token
    -> Globomantics HR System: “Carved Rock Fitness System, can I exchange this request token 
       for an access token?”
    -> Carved Rock Fitness System: “Sure. Here’s your access token and secret.”

    Step 6 – The Consumer Accesses the Protected Resource
    -> Globomantics HR System: “I’d like to get work out data for Globomantics Employee (User). 
       Here’s my access token!”
    -> Carved Rock Fitness System: “Done!”


